Every organization has different security requirements. There are several security
  baselines such as CIS, DISA-STIG, PCI, HIPAA, NIST, and FedRAMP for different
  industries in the United States, including payment cards, health care, the federal gov‐
  ernment, and defense contractors. In Europe, national institutes like BSI Germany,
  BSI UK, and NCSC publish recommendations to help secure computers and their
  connections. If your government does not require a security standard, you can look at
  the examples provided by software foundations like Mozilla.

In modern IT architectures, several factors affect the use of the internet and cryptog‐
  raphy. SSL inspection is common in web proxy servers to avoid malware infection in
  PCs. SSL inspection allows IT administrators to see, and intervene in, website traffic
  from web browsers in the company. To avoid legal implications, these proxy servers
  support using lists of trusted and distrusted site categories. Web proxy servers can
  limit the internet use of employees with good intentions, but there can be security
  issues with software as well. Either way, proxy inspection can help avoid viruses and
  ransomware, but it can also block development and innovation.

In ks.cfg file: 
  the org_fedora_oscap add-on uses ospp as a profile. OSPP is based on the crypto policy 
  FIPS. The FIPS:OSPP crypto policy restricts the set of algorithms even further than 
  FIPS does. At the moment FIPS excludes some cryptographic algorithms and US government 
  agencies mandate the use of a particular set of algorithms evaluated by NIST.


Shadow IT involves any computing resources that are not procured or delivered
  under corporate governance. It includes private laptops, old PCs hidden under the
  desks, personal cloud subscriptions, personal servers, and so on. To leapfrog the
  competition, some corporations even create a greenfield company to avoid dealing with 
  all the red tape accumulated over decades. If the central IT organization delivers systems 
  that don’t meet developers’ expectations, the developers will create their own systems.

Sunshine IT
  Modern software is best created by autonomous teams, enabled by platforms that
  don’t hinder productivity across departments, regions, and most of all, the corporate
  firewall. These software teams have, to coin a phrase, intelligence autonomy; that is,
  they have access to any information, API, AI, SaaS, IaaS, PaaS, source code, library,
  or tool they need to get the job done. They can organize their own work and communicate 
  in strict privacy. If you think about it, strategically, this is a competitive
  advantage. It might disrupt your position if you work in central IT, but fear not!

Zero Trust
  The idea of zero trust, a trending term coined by security expert John Kindervag,
  holds that the traditional “fortress” model of security operates on an outdated
  assumption: that everything inside an organization’s network should be implicitly
  trusted, with bastions and firewalls to secure the perimeter. This implicit trust means
  a lack of granular security controls, so that once on the network, users—including
  threat actors and malicious insiders—are free to move laterally and access or exfil‐
  trate sensitive data. This model no longer works in an age of cloud and container
  technologies. Salespeople will offer you identity management, explicit verification,
  automation, least privilege, and other buzzwords to try to sell more. 




