Microservices architecture is an extension of service-oriented architecture (SOA). Both architectures 
  rely on services as the main component, but they vary greatly in terms of service characteristics:

  Granularity—Service components within a microservices architecture are generally 
      single-purpose services that do one thing. In SOA, service components can
      range in size, anywhere from small application services to very large enterprise services.
  
  Sharing—SOA enhances component sharing, whereas microservices architecture tries to minimize 
      sharing through bounded context (loosely coupled services or modules) with minimal dependencies.

  Communication— Microservices rely on lightweight protocols such as HTTP/
      REST and simple messaging, while SOA architectures rely on enterprise service bus (ESB) for communication;
      early versions of SOA used object-oriented protocols to communicate with each other, such as 
      Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM) and object request brokers (ORBs). Later versions used 
      messaging services such as Java Message Service (JMS) or Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP).

  Deployment—SOA services are deployed to application servers (IBM WebSphere Application Server, 
      WildFly, Apache Tomcat) and virtual machines. On the other hand, microservices are deployed in
      containers. This makes microservices more flexible and lighter than SOA.


microservices architecture comes with the following benefits:

 Scalability—Applications built as microservices can be broken into multiple components so that each 
  component can be deployed and scaled independently without service interruption. Also, for stateless 
  microservices, usage of Docker or Kubernetes can offer horizontal scaling within seconds.
  
 Fault tolerance—If one microservice fails, the others will continue to work because of loosely coupled 
  components. A single microservice can be easily replaced by a new one without affecting the whole 
  system. As a result, modernization in microservices architecture can be incremental, while 
  modernization in monolithic architecture can cause service outages.
  
 Development velocity—Microservices can be written in different languages (polyglot programming) and use 
  different databases or OS environments. If one microservice is, for example, CPU intensive, it could be 
  implemented in highly productive languages such as Golang or C++, while other components could be implemented 
  in lightweight programming languages such as JavaScript or Python. So companies can easily hire more 
  developers and scale development. Also, because microservices are autonomous, developers have the freedom to
  independently develop and deploy services without bumping into each other’s code (avoiding synchronization 
  hell within the organization) and having to wait for one team to finish a chunk of work before starting 
  theirs. As a result, team productivity increases, and vendor or technology stack lock-in reduces.
  
 Continuous everything—Microservices architecture combined with Agile software development enable continuous 
  delivery. The software release cycle in microservice applications becomes much smaller, and many features 
  can be released per day through CI/CD pipelines with open source CI tools like Jenkins.

Some of the potential pain areas associated with microservices designs:

 Complexity—Increased complexity over a monolithic application due to the
  number of services involved. As a result, enormous effort, synchronization, and automation 
  are required to handle interservice communication, monitoring, testing, and deployment.
  
 Operational overhead—Deploying a microservice-based application can be complex. It needs a lot of 
  coordination among multiple services. Each service must be isolated with its own runtime environment 
  and resources. Hence, traditional deployment solutions like virtualization can’t be used and 
  must be replaced with containerization solutions like Docker.
  
 Synchronization—Microservices require cultural changes in organizations seeking to adopt them. Having 
  multiple development teams working on different services requires a huge effort to ensure that 
  communication, coordination, and automated processes are in place. Cultures like Agile and DevOps 
  practices are mandatory to take on microservice-based applications.



Cloud native is a paradigm for building applications as microservices and running
  them on containerized and dynamically orchestrated platforms that fully exploit the advantage of 
  the cloud computing model. These applications are developed using the language and framework best 
  suited for the functionality. They’re designed as loosely coupled systems, optimized for cloud scale 
  and performance, use managed services, and take advantage of continuous delivery to 
  achieve reliability and faster time to market.

To summarize, cloud-native architecture allows you to dynamically scale and support
  large numbers of users, events, and requests on distributed applications. A real-world
  example of the adoption of cloud-native architecture is the serverless model.


Serverless
  The serverless computing model was kicked off with AWS Lambda in 2014. In this architecture, developers 
  can write cost-efficient applications without provisioning or maintaining a complex infrastructure.
  Cloud providers deploy customers’ code to fully managed, ephemeral, time-boxed containers that live 
  only during the invocation of the functions. Therefore, businesses can grow without customers having 
  to worry about horizontal scaling or maintaining complex infrastructure.
 
Instead of maintaining a dedicated container or instance to host your static web application, you can 
  combine an Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket to benefit from scalability at a cheaper cost. 
  The HTTP requests coming from the website go through Amazon API Gateway HTTP endpoints that trigger 
  the right AWS Lambda function to handle the application logic and persist data to a fully managed 
  database service such as DynamoDB. For particular use cases, 

Going serverless can make sense for several reasons:

  Less operational overhead—The infrastructure is managed by the cloud provider, and this reduces the 
     overhead and increases developer velocity. OS updates are taken care of, and patching is done by the 
     function-as-a-service (FaaS) provider. This results in decreased time to market and faster 
     software releases and eliminates the need for a system administrator.
     
 Horizontal autoscaling—Function becomes the unit of scale that leads to small, loosely coupled, 
    stateless components that, in the long run, lead to scalable applications. Plus, the scaling mechanism 
    is shifted to the cloud provider, which decides how to use its infrastructure effectively to serve the 
    client’s requests. Cost optimization—You pay for only the compute time and resources that you
    consume. As a result, you don’t pay for idle resources, which significantly reduces infrastructure costs.
    
 Polyglot—Another benefit is the ability to choose a different language runtime
    depending on the use case. One part of the application can be written in Java,
    while another in Python; it doesn’t really matter as long as the job gets done



Defining continuous integration
  Continuous integration (CI) is the practice of having a shared and centralized code repository, 
  and directing all changes and features through a complex pipeline before integrating them into 
  the central repository (such as GitHub, Bitbucket, or GitLab). A classic CI pipeline is as follows:

  1 - Triggers a build whenever a code commit occurs
  2 - Runs the unit tests and all pre-integration tests (quality and security tests)
  3 - Builds the artifact (for example, Docker image, zip file, machine learning training model)
  4 - Runs acceptance tests and pushes the result to an artifact-management repository 
      (such as a Docker Registry, Amazon S3 bucket, Sonatype’s Nexus, or JFrog Artifactory)




Here are the most famous types of testing: 

  Unit tests—These test each piece of the source code. They consist of testing individual functions and methods. 
   You could also output your test coverage and validate that you’re meeting your code coverage requirements.

  Quality tests—Check that the code is well formatted, follows best practices, and
   has no serious coding errors. This is also called static code analysis, as it helps to
   produce high-quality code by looking for patterns in code that might generate bugs.

  Security tests—Inspect source code to uncover common security vulnerabilities
   and common security flaws (for example, leaked usernames and passwords).

  UI tests—Simulate user behavior through the system to ensure that the application works correctly 
   in all supported browsers (including Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Microsoft Internet Explorer) and 
   platforms (such as Win- dows, Linux, and macOS) and that it delivers the functionality promised in user stories.

  Integration tests—Check that services or components used by the application work well together and no 
   defects exist. For example, an integration test might test an application’s interaction with the database.



Defining continuous delivery
  Continuous delivery (CD) is similar to continuous deployment but requires human
  intervention or a business decision before deploying the release to production. 


CI tools can be divided into the following three main categories:

  Cloud-managed solutions like AWS CodePipeline (https://aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/), Google Cloud Build 
   (https://cloud.google.com/build), and Microsoft Azure Pipelines. 

  Open source solutions such as Jenkins (www.jenkins.io), Spinnaker (https://spinnaker.io/), or GoCD (www.gocd.org).

  Software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions like Travis CI (https://travis-ci.org/),
   CircleCI (https://circleci.com/), and TeamCity (www.jetbrains.com/teamcity/).




Declarative pipeline
  A declarative pipeline is a relatively new feature (introduced in Pipeline 2.5, 
  https://plugins.jenkins.io/workflow-aggregator) that supports the PaC approach. It makes the pipeline code 
  easier to read and write for new Jenkins users. This code is written in a Jenkinsfile that can be checked 
  into a version-control system (VCS) such as SVN or an SCM system such as GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or others.

  In declarative syntax, you cannot use Groovy code such as variables, loops, or conditions. You are 
  restricted to the structured sections/blocks and the DSL (Jenkins domain-specific language) steps.

Declarative pipelines provide a more restrictive syntax, as each pipeline must use
 these predefined block attributes or sections:
  agent
  environment
  post
  stages
  steps


When using a Jenkinsfile, your pipeline definition lives with the code
  source of the application going through the pipeline. Jenkins will automatically scan
  through each branch in the application code repository and check whether the
  branch has a Jenkinsfile. If it does, Jenkins will automatically create and configure a
  subproject within the multibranch pipeline project to run the pipeline for that
  branch. This eliminates the need for manual pipeline creation and management.

Exploring the GitFlow branch model

A couple of Git branching strategies exist. The most interesting and used one is
Git-Flow. It consists of the following essential branches:

  Master— A branch that corresponds to the current production code. You can’t commit directly except for 
   hotfixes. Git tags can be used to tag all commits in the master branch with a version number 
   (for instance, you can use the seman- tic versioning convention detailed at https://semver.org/).

  Preprod — A release branch, a mirror of production. It can be used to test all new
   features developed on the develop branch before merging them to the master branch.

  Develop — A development integration branch containing the latest integrated development code.

  Feature/X — An individual feature branch being developed. Each new feature
   resides in its own branch, and it’s generally created from the latest develop branch.

  Hotfix/X — When you need to solve something in production code, you can use the hotfix branch and open 
   a pull request for the master branch. This branch is based on the master branch.


The overall flow of GitFlow within Jenkins can be summarized as follows:

  A develop branch is created from the master branch.

  A preprod branch is created from the develop branch. 

  A developer creates a new feature branch based on the development branch.
   When a feature is completed, a pull request is created.

  Jenkins automatically runs pre-integration tests in this individual feature. If the tests are successful,
   Jenkins marks the commits as successful. The development team will then review the changes and merge the 
   pull request of the new feature branch to the develop branch and delete the feature branch.

  A build will be triggered on the develop branch, and the changes will be
   deployed to the sandbox/development environment.

  A pull request is created to merge the develop branch into the preprod branch.  

  When the develop branch is merged to the preprod branch, the pipeline will be triggered to deploy 
   the new features to the staging environment upon the completion of the pipeline.

  Once the release is being validated, the preprod branch will be merged to master,
   and changes will be deployed to the production environment after user approval.

  If an issue in production is detected, a hot branch is created from the master branch.
   Once the hotfix is complete, it will be merged to both the develop and master branches. 


GitFlow does not solve all problems with branching. But it offers you a more logical
  branch structure and a great workflow organization model when working within a big
  team. In addition, many feature branches are developed concurrently, which makes
  parallel development easy. For smaller projects (and smaller teams), GitFlow can be overkill. 

For small projects: 
  Master branch, to store the official release history and the source code of an
   application running in a production environment
   
  Preprod branch, to store new integrated features running in the staging environ-
   ment and ready to be merged to the master branch
   
  Develop branch, for the latest delivered development changes and mirror of the
   application running in a sandbox environment


Test-driven development with Jenkins
  Using Jenkinsfiles has one potential downside: it can be more challenging to discover
  problems up-front when you are working in the external file and not in the environment of 
  the Jenkins server. One approach to dealing with this is developing the code within the 
  Jenkins server as a pipeline project first. Then, you can convert it to a Jenkinsfile afterward.



The Replay button feature allows for quick modifications and execution of an
  existing pipeline without changing the pipeline configuration or creating a new commit. 
  It’s ideal for rapid iteration and prototyping of a pipeline.


Command-line pipeline linter
  For advanced users, you can use the Jenkins RESTful API to validate the Jenkinsfile
  syntax by issuing an HTTP/HTTPS POST request with the parameters 
  
NOTE
  To get the API endpoint working on a Jenkins server with cross-site
  request forgery (CSRF) protection enabled, you need to request a crumb issuer and include it in the 
  Authorization header in the issued HTTP request. To generate this crumb, you need to request the 
  following URL: JENKINS_URL/jenkins/crumbIssuer/api/json.

Another way of validating the Jenkinsfile is to run the following command from the terminal session:

╒═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╕
  curl -X POST -L --user USERNAME:TOKEN JENKINS_URL/pipeline-model-converter/validate -F "jenkinsfile=<Jenkinsfile" 
╘═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╛

The Jenkins command-line interface (CLI), www.jenkins.io/doc/book/managing/cli/, can also be used with 
  the declarative-lint option to lint a declarative pipeline from the command line before actually 
  running it. You can issue this command to lint a Jenkinsfile via the CLI with SSH:
  
╒══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╕
  ssh -p $JENKINS_SSHD_PORT $JENKINS_HOSTNAME declarative-linter < Jenkinsfile 
╘══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╛






Jenkins distributed builds: 
  In a distributed microservices architecture, you may have multiple services to build,
  test, and deploy regularly. Hence, having multiple build machines makes sense.
  While you can always run Jenkins in a standalone mode, running all builds on a
  central machine may not be the best option and will result in having a single point
  of failure (a single Jenkins server cannot handle the entire load for larger and
  heavier projects). Fortunately, Jenkins can also be configured to run distributed
  builds across a fleet of machines/nodes by setting up a master/worker cluster,


Jenkins uses a master-worker architecture to manage distributed builds. Each component has a specific role:
  Jenkins master — Responsible for scheduling build jobs and distributing builds to
   the workers for the actual execution. It also monitors the workers’ states, and
   collects and aggregates the build results in the web dashboard.

  Jenkins worker — Also known as a slave or build agent, this is a Java executable that runs on a remote machine,
   listens for requests coming from the Jenkins master, and executes build jobs. You can have as many workers 
   as you want (up to 100+ nodes). Workers can be added and removed on the fly. Therefore, the workload
   will be distributed to them automatically, and the workers will take the load off the master Jenkins server.

SSH
  If you are working in a UNIX environment, the most convenient way to start a Jenkins
  worker is undoubtedly to use Secure Shell (SSH). Jenkins has its own built-in SSH client, 









